---
layout: post
title: Introduction to SQL and SQL injection
---

This article is going to talk about the number one threat in cybersecurity, injection, more specifically, SQL injection. What it is, how it works, and how it would hurt?

## What is SQL?

**SQL** stands for "Structured Query Language", which is a language that operates modern relational database.

SQl is the language for the Relational Database Management System (RDBMS), which is used in many area that require storing data in a structured fashion.

SQL could be split into four categories:

1. DDL (Data Definition Language) : Define database schemas and how the data should be stored.
2. DML (Data Manipulation Language) : Manipulate data including insertion, modification, deletion.
3. DCL (Data Control Language) : Control the permission of access of the database.
4. TCL (Transaction Control Language) : Handle transaction and related issues.

Each of them are implemented differently in major database platforms, but the major functions are similar.

## Where do we use it?

Database is used in almost everywhere, from emergency services, to finantial institutes, education institutes. These institutes are crucial to modern civilization, yet they cannot live without a proper managed database. More importantly, they are most likely be using relational database.

Current databases of choice for many institutes are either Oracle Databases or IBM DB2, and both of them are Relational Database. Both of them use SQL for operating.

However, all the database, they are not plain and straight to the user. Databases are hidden in the backend, where there are always a frontend based on them, either a webpage or an application (I would generalize all of them into application since webpage is a webapp).

Given all above, you can see that the broken of database would cause sever damage to modern civilization.

## What is SQL injection?

A simple definition on SQL injection is *insertion or injection of a SQL command via input to the application in front of the target database*

A correctly done SQL injection could potentially disclose sensitive information in database, modification data, execution administration operations, recover contents in the database management system.

## How is it work?

SQL injections remains number one threat to cybersecurity according to [OWASP](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Top_Ten_Project), despite some countermeasures are taken, it remains an unsolved threat.

SQL injection could be happen due to two compromise:

1. Compromised data source.
2. Input data be used to dynamically construct SQL.

Malicious SQL command (attacker intended command) could be injected to effect the execution of predefined SQL command.

For example:

```SQL
SELECT * FROM Users 
WHERE username = 'evil' OR 1 = 1; --' AND password = '';

/*In this example, username is inserted as "evil' OR 1 = 1; --" with "--" comment out the rest predefined SQL command*/
```

This is very elementary, and could be solved by parameterize input, however, if the server side is improperly configured, this could be an issue.

Beyond this, there is also second order SQL injection I would talk about in future along with the progress of my project.

## How would it hurts?

Generally, SQL injection could be very severe:

- If it happens to bank, than account and related password could all be stolen. (Confidentiality)

- If the server side is not properly configured, attacker could use username and apply SQL injection access the account without password. (Authentication)

- SQL injection could also be used to give improper authorization to people who should not have access to certain data. (Authorization)

- Hacker could also utilize the SQL injection to modify or destroy the data. (Integrity)
