---
layout: post
title: Introduction to Operating System
tag: fundamental
---

Operating system is the software foundation of the modern cyberworld, from PC, server-client, to the supercomputer, every computer needs a operating system so that hardware resources could be better managed to achieve the computing goal. This article intends to introduce the fundamental concepts about the modern operating system, as in penetration testing working on OS is inevitable.

## What is an operating system

Operating system is **software**, a special one in the modern computer architecture, it works in kernel mode.

It has two major functions:

1. It abstract the service of machine language level instruction set, and transform them into a neater abstracted st of calls.

2. It manages the system resources such as processors, memory, and I/O, orderlly control the allocation of them among the competing programs.

---

OS could be classified by different application scenarios, however, for modern OS, mostly we are talking about:

1. Server OS: Linux and Windows

2. PC OS: Linux, OS X, Windows

3. PDA OS: Android, IOS

4. Embedded OS: Android, ARM

5. Sensor OS: Tiny OS

## Process

Process is an abstraction of the running of program. 

Each process would have blocks of memory located for it called **address space**.

Under each process, there could exist multiple path of running threads, this is called multithreading.

## Memory management

Memory management is an abstraction of the main memory and the usage of it.

Despite that we all want infinite memory at crazy speed with low cost, we are normally limited on 8 to 32Gb of RAM on our PCs, thats why the OS introduces swap, to utilize disk and release the pressure on the main memory.

Address space is limited within the boundary of main memory, but with **virtual memory**, we can keep the thing going without fully shutdown one or two process.

## File system

File system is requested to fill out the insufficient of memory:

1. Main memory size is limited.

2. Data is lost when process is terminated.

3. Frequently necessary for multiple process to access the information at the same time.

File can be seen as fixed-sized block accepting operations of: Reading and Writing the block.

File is actually an abstraction of the storage, it is an logical unit of information created by process. Information stored in a file must be persistant, without being affected by the creation or temination of processes.

## I/O management

OS controls all I/O devices on the hardware, it can issue commands, catch interrupts, and handle errors. It should provide interface between devices and the rest of the system. The interface should be the same for all devices.

## Multipleprocessor systems

Clockspeed would eventually reach its limit, since thermal cannot be managed to reach theoretical level, and the chips cannot be made infinitely small. Hence, in order to increase the computing power, we need to using more cores to multiply the power.

Parallel cores system is one method, which runs multiple cores in one system, however, unlike PC which holds 4, 6, up to 16 cores, real parallel cores system may contains thousands of cores, thats not easily affordable. Instead, the distributed computing is a thing that connect the processors by the network.

OS are also distributed so that the whole system, dispite spread over network, shows as a uniform system.

## Further

This article is just a very simplified introduction to the modern operating system with concepts that are essential for pentesting as general knowledge. If you want to know more, I would keep updating reading notes on this topic, and I would suggest the _Modern Operating Systems_ as a major reading material.
